ATS has better abstraction mechanisms than C, which allows us to pass
fewer function arguments around. An example is that I've taken the
main initialization code from main.c and put it in its own function,
which it shares with other game. While this in principle allows us to
find a sweet spot between global variables and pure-functional
programming, I found that my variables essentially ended up being
global (but at least this can be easily controlled for the specific
application).

However, having variables that are visible to several functions always
comes at the tradeoff of a function becoming stateful, so I wonder
where to draw the line. I think in our particular case (game
programming), it is clear that we are modeling a complex object that
is very IO dependent, and it is hard to think of complex objects as
lacking a state; the same is probably just as true for other types of
systems programming.

It may be the case that as it stands the code is slightly overly
abstracted in most places, but I did this as practice and also to
possibly see how the abstraction holds up to porting the I/O to say,
SDL, later on.



Thoughts on ATS:

Amount of time: It rougly took twice the  amount of time to port to ATS
as it did to code in C for me.  C is a much simpler language, and I
have less experience with ATS(2), so this is not surprising.  I also
spent more type abstract and proving things in ATS, which isn't
strictly necessary. 

The major thing that might have helped speed up the process, which I
understand is on the way, would be improved error messages. While I
also did spend a bit of time greping code and looking at examples,
that is to be expected, and it isn't much harder than looking up
examples on cplusplus.com. For most things, there were already plenty
of examples.
 


Type naming conventions (or encodings). Ideally, no encodings are needed,
and the name of a type can explain itself to anyone versed in the relavent 
kind of programming. Many ATS types have relatively difficulty meanings.

Despite having done exactly this kind of thing before, it took me a while
to figure out I needed to do this kind of conversion on an int:
val mn = i2sz(g1ofg0_int(board_conf.m * board_conf.n))
This first takes the product of m and n (an int) converts it to a "g1int",
and finally converts to a size. Some of these types are relatively new and
the conventions may still be evolving, but this kind of difficulty seems 
to be a major barrier to writing code (though it is somewhat easier to read
if you've doen this sort of thing at least once in ATS). 


